# Video-LiDAR alignment
The video-LiDAR alignment will be led by Prof. Sebastian Goldlücke and team. 
The idea is to estimate the positions of the thermal cameras with reference
to the LiDAR scans of the cave.  The video from the cameras need to be matched
to reconstructed views of the cave from various positions. 

## LiDAR scans
The LiDAR scans were performed on 18th August 2018. 

## Video data
The relevant video folder for the scan is 2018-08-17. 

## Input data required 
1. Thermal camera videos of the cave on multiple nights
1. Wand calibration data to generate camera extrinsic (and intrinsic) parameters for each night. 
1. LiDAR scan data

All the above data need to be uploaded online somewhere too!

	* LiDAR scans - being uploaded now
	* Video data from 2018-08-17 session 
	* DLT coefficients + relative orientations. (*Does DLTdv*


## Expected output


## Related literature

* Registration of RGB and thermal point cloudsgenerated by structure from motion (1).
	* Use the COLMAP software to reconstruct surfaces.

## Updates: 

* 23/6 : second meeting between Julian, Bastian, Thejasvi. Discussed outcomes from first pipeline that Julian's implemented, some suggestions:
	* implement pixel-level median filtering
	* use already estimated DLT coefficients for feature matching 
	* try to 
* 21/5 : first scheduled meeting between Bastian, Julian and Thejasvi. Data shared and broad strategies discussed.
* 14/5 : Julian Jandeleidt -BSc candidate will be working on aligning the thermal and LiDAR data. 


### References

1. Phuc Truong, T., Yamaguchi, M., Mori, S., Nozick, V., & Saito, H. (2017). Registration of RGB and thermal point clouds generated by structure from motion. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision Workshops (pp. 419-427).
